Project Specification: Study Buddy - Agentic Study Partner

1. Project Vision

SB is a browser-based educational agentic system. It leverages the extreme inference speed of the Gemma 4 model family via the Cerebras API (1,500+ TPS) to power a highly parallel, multi-agent workflow. The application functions entirely in the browser using the File System Access API to act as a secure, local-first workspace while offloading heavy cognitive reasoning to the cloud.

2. System Architecture & Tech Stack

2.1. Frontend (The Interface)

Framework: Any.

State Management: React Context API / Zustand (for fast UI updates linked to WebSockets).

Visualizations: React Flow (for the Interactive Knowledge Graph).

Local Storage/File Access: HTML5 File System Access API (window.showDirectoryPicker()).

Sandboxing: HTML5 <iframe> with restricted permissions for rendering AI-generated generative web components.

2.2. Backend (The Orchestrator)

Framework: Python with FastAPI.

Concurrency: asyncio for parallel agent execution; WebSockets for streaming responses to the frontend.

Validation: Pydantic for strict JSON schema enforcement of all LLM outputs.

Integrations: Google Calendar API, Google Tasks API, YouTube Data API v3.

2.3. AI Infrastructure (The Brains)

Provider: Cerebras API.

Primary Reasoning/Generation Models: Gemma 4 31B (JSON mode enforced).

Multimodal Ingestion Model: Gemma 4 E4B (Vision/Audio processing).

Vector/RAG Indexing: Local-in-memory ChromaDB for fast retrieval of the student's study folder files.

3. The Multi-Agent Roster

The system utilizes an Orchestrator-Worker architecture to prevent monolithic prompts from breaking down.

The Senses Agent (Gemma 4 E4B): * Role: Multimodal Input Processor.

Responsibility: Transcribing voice notes, parsing images of handwritten textbook pages, reading YouTube transcripts, and handling multilingual translation (e.g., translating a query from Hindi to English). Outputs clean, structured Markdown.

The Brain Agent (Gemma 4 31B):

Role: State Orchestrator & Cognitive Engine.

Responsibility: Maintains the student_graph.json, decides which UI nodes to unlock, delegates execution to worker agents, and enforces the cognitive framework (Spaced Repetition vs. Backwards Planning).

The Tutor Agent (Gemma 4 31B):

Role: Hard Science & Asset Generator.

Responsibility: Writing HTML5/CSS/JS generative visual simulations, formatting Anki-compatible CSV flashcards, and generating the raw text answers for worksheets.

The Story Agent (Gemma 4 31B):

Role: Gamification Engine.

Responsibility: Persona-driven generation. Applies narrative lore (e.g., sci-fi, fantasy) to dry subjects to increase student engagement and retention.

The Infinity Wiki Agent (Gemma 4 31B + RAG):

Role: Fact/Deep-Dive Validator.

Responsibility: Connecting to external APIs (Wikipedia, YouTube) to fetch real-time data for granular "rabbit hole" questions without hallucinating.

4. Comprehensive Feature Modules

4.1. The Interactive Knowledge Graph (React Flow)

Cognitive Framework: Based on Ausubel's Subsumption Theory (Macro to Micro concepts).

Dynamic UI: The UI is not a static chat; it is a branching skill tree.

Node Tuning: Users can click a node (e.g., "Enthalpy") and type a modifier (e.g., "Explain visually"). The Brain Agent dynamically updates that specific node's JSON state in the tree.

Node States: Nodes have temporal degradation tracking: LOCKED, ACTIVE, MASTERED, STRUGGLING, and DEGRADED (prompting active recall).

4.2. Generative HTML5 Visuals

Mechanism: Replaces heavy video rendering (like Manim) with instant client-side code.

Execution: The Tutor Agent writes raw HTML/CSS/SVG code for interactive simulations (e.g., an animated piston engine). The React frontend injects this string into a secure, sandboxed <iframe> directly in the UI.

4.3. Custom Workspace Mode (Local File Sync)

Mechanism: Uses the browser's native window.showDirectoryPicker() to request access to a local folder (e.g., C:\StudySpace).

Functionality: If a student saves a PDF into this folder on their OS, the React app reads it locally. When the Tutor Agent generates flashcards, the React app writes the .csv file directly back to the hard drive. No cloud storage is required for user files.

4.4. Handwriting Synthesis Engine

Mechanism: Deterministic Font Generation (FontForge / handwrite library).

Workflow:

Student uploads a filled-out template of their handwriting once.

The system generates a custom .ttf (TrueType Font) file.

When completing a worksheet, the Tutor Agent generates the text answers.

The React app (using HTML5 <canvas>) renders the text using the custom .ttf, applying slight perlin noise to baselines and variable opacity to simulate pen strokes, outputting a realistic .png.

4.5. "Zero-to-Hero" Modes

General Mode: Default spaced repetition. The system logs data and suggests casual reviews based on node degradation.

Specialized (Crunch) Mode: The student provides a topic and a strict deadline. The Brain Agent uses a Backwards-Planning Algorithm to map the macro-to-micro tree into daily milestones. It automatically pushes strict review times directly to Google Calendar and Google Tasks via OAuth.

4.6. Automated YouTube Curation

Mechanism: When the student repeatedly fails a node, the system triggers the YouTube Data API.

Workflow: The backend fetches the top 3 videos and pulls their transcripts using youtube-transcript-api. The Senses Agent reads all three transcripts, determines which matches the student's exact learning block, and the UI embeds only that single, highly-targeted video.

4.7. Daily Session Logs

Mechanism: End-of-day asynchronous cron job.

Workflow: The Brain Agent reviews the session's active nodes and chat history, generating an encouraging Markdown summary of achievements and weaknesses. The React frontend writes this Markdown file directly into the local Custom Workspace directory.

5. Pydantic Core Data Schemas

To maintain deterministic execution across the 1,500 TPS pipeline, the Brain Agent MUST output strictly to this JSON schema.

class NodePatch(BaseModel):
    node_id: str
    status: Literal["LOCKED", "ACTIVE", "MASTERED", "STRUGGLING", "DEGRADED"]
    updated_description: Optional[str] = None
    new_children: Optional[List[str]] = Field(description="IDs of newly generated sub-topics")

class HTML5VisualPayload(BaseModel):
    html_code: str = Field(description="Self-contained HTML5/CSS/JS code with inline styles.")
    animation_type: str

class ExternalAction(BaseModel):
    action_type: Literal["CALENDAR_SYNC", "YOUTUBE_FETCH", "GENERATE_FLASHCARDS"]
    parameters: Dict[str, Any]

class OrchestratorAction(BaseModel):
    intent: Literal["UPDATE_GRAPH", "GENERATE_VISUAL", "STREAM_CHAT", "TRIGGER_HANDWRITING", "TOOL_CALL"]
    chat_stream_response: str = Field(description="Conversational text meant for the student UI.")
    graph_patches: Optional[List[NodePatch]] = None
    visual_payload: Optional[HTML5VisualPayload] = None
    tool_execution: Optional[ExternalAction] = None


6. Development Phasing (24-Hour Constraint)

Hours 1-6: Scaffold React frontend and FastAPI backend. Connect to Cerebras API. Implement the File System Access API for local folder reading.

Hours 7-12: Implement the React Flow Knowledge Graph. Map the Brain Agent's JSON output directly to graph state rendering.

Hours 13-18: Build the Generative HTML5 injection iframe. Implement the Tutor Agent's strict coding prompts.

Hours 19-24: Implement "Crunch Mode" Google API integrations, YouTube curation, and the Canvas-based Handwriting generator. Finalize the adversarial testing harness.